# Automated-particle-picking-repo

Here is the repo for the Siyu Liu's program with the title of 

### Automated particle picking of Cryo-EM imaging data with deep learning

Here is a short introduction of the files contained in this repo

1. It should be reminded that the original dataset is not included here, due to its huge scale. The access to the dataset is attached with "Data availability" under the "Abstruct" section of the essay.
2. The file "Dataset rearrangement.py": The raw cryo-EM dataset has a confusing structure and complex file names. Thus, this file is used for collecting the original files and sorting them in a clear, ordered structure for the following analysis.
3. The file "Image_Classification.ipynb": This file is extracted from the Colab, where I call cloud computing resources to train the model. This file contains the whole process of image classification study in my essay, which is introduced in Chapter 4.
4. The file "SegLabelStage1.ipynb": This file is considered as the stage 1 for the mask genration for the image segmentation model training, the original manually labeled mask is stored in visual format and not model-readable.
5. The file "SegLabelStage2.ipynb": This file is consideered as the stage 2 for the mask generation.
6. The file "SAM2_annotator.py": This file is the stage 3 of mask generation, powered by Segment Anything Model 2.
7. The file "SegLabelStage4.ipynb": This is an extra step for the mask generation, after a poor segmentation result is generated by the model with V3 mask. The black border is relabeled in this file.
8. The file "Image_Segmentation_Unet_Model_Training.ipynb": This file is extracted from the Colab, showing the whole process of the image segmentation task with the baseline model, U-Net.
9. The file "Image_Segmentation_TransUnet_Model_Training.ipynb": This file is also extracted from the Colab, demonstrating the whole process of the image segmentation task with the advanced model.
